---
layout: post
title: Bloc Chat
tags:
- HTML
- CSS
- JavaScript
- Angular
- Firebase
---

<h2>Summary</h2>
Bloc Chat a real-time chat application built with Angular, and uses the Firebase Backend-as-a-Service. Working on this application gave me more front-end programming experience and served as a great introduction to the Angular framework.

<h2>Explanation</h2>
This application allows you to create a new chat room or join an existing room, and communicate with other users that are also logged into the chat room. Bloc essentially took off the training wheels within the checkpoints. It was mostly up to me and my ability to research to create this project. 

<h2>Project Requirements</h2>
I was given a series of user stories for this project:
<ul>
<li>As a user, I want to see a list of available chat rooms</li>
<li>As a user, I want to create chat rooms</li>
<li>As a user, I want to see a list of messages in each chat room</li>
<li>As a user, I want to set my username to display in chat rooms	</li>
<li>As a user, I want to send messages associated with my username in a chat room</li>
</ul>

<h2>Problem</h2>
Unlike the prior front-end project, I was not given any real assets (background image, logo, etc.), nor detailed specifics in the UI. It was up to me to come up with the structure on my own. 

<h2>Solution</h2>
Parts of the main design, especially the chat box and room list, were modeled with the Slack desktop application as an inspiration. I was left to my own devices for using HTML and CSS to create the application, so I had to be resourceful. It was tempting to push the elements of the page around until it worked, but I was more interested in being mindful of the box-model, and keeping the structre clean.  

<h2>Results</h2>
This project was a great learning experience. Not just in the understanding of the languages and Firebase, but also in my troubleshooting techniques. I am proud of the end results, even though I didn't have time to implement more features I had in mind. I'd to eventually revisit Bloc Chat and develop it further.