---
layout: post
title: Blocipedia
tags:
- Ruby
- Rails
- Bootstrap
- Devise Gem
- Stripe Gem
---

<h2>Summary</h2>
Blocipedia is a Ruby-on-Rails application I built as a part of my training at Bloc with the help of my mentor, Shannon Bertucci. Blocipedia allows users to create public and private Markdown-based wikis. Users have the ability to create a free, standard account, which allows them to create public wikis. Alternatively, they can upgrade to a premium account to view and create private wikis and manage collaborators.

<h2>Explanation</h2>
Blocipedia was structured as a real sink-or-swim project. The assignments' structure do not walk you through the steps, as Bloc has done in past projects. Instead the project’s instructions are brief, and I chose it because I really wanted to challenge myself. 

<h2>Project Requirements</h2>
I was given a series of user stories for this project:
<ul>
<li>As a user, I want to sign up for a free account by providing a user name, password and email</li>
<li>As a user, I want to sign in and out of Blocipedia</li>
<li>As a user with a standard account, I want to create, read, update and delete public wikis</li>
<li>As a developer, I want to offer three user roles: admin, standard, or premium</li>
<li>As a developer, I want to seed the development database automatically with users and wikis</li>
<li>As a user, I want to upgrade my account from a free to a paid plan</li>
<li>As a premium user, I want to create private wikis</li>
<li>As a user, I want to edit wikis using Markdown syntax</li>
<li>As a premium user, I want to add and remove collaborators for my private wikis</li>
</ul>

<h2>Problem</h2>
The most difficult part of this project was thinking through the database. Setting up collaborators was challenging because prior to that user story, I had been using the `belongs to`, `has many` relationship for the database. However, a collaborator status modifies an existing user, and each wiki can have several collaborators. I also ran into some trouble with the database when deploying to Heroku. 

<h2>Solution</h2>
I learned how to read error messages more carefully and better decipher the feedback. I felt like I got a lot better at being resourceful and looking for solutions on my own. So, following the <a href="http://guides.rubyonrails.org/association_basics.html#the-has-many-through-association" target="_blank">Rails guide on active record associations</a>, I set up `has many through` associations to get the relationships to work s intended.

<h2>Results</h2>
After a good struggle with deploying Blocipedia to Heroku, I successfully pushed this app to production. There's a lot to be desired on the front-end, but it was an awesome learning experience for all-things-back-end. Check it out <a href = "https://arcane-crag-67381.herokuapp.com" target="_blank">here</a>.